[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm Barbara Marx Hubbard.
Welcome to "A New World View."
What is the meaning of our
new powers that is good?
I had a very happy
childhood in New York City.
I walked to school every day.
I had lots of
interesting things.
I enjoyed my life.
And when I was 15, into
this enjoyable life
story that I was leading,
the United States
dropped the first
atomic bomb on Japan.
And I was with my
family, who happened
to know the generals of
the Second World War.
And there was enthusiasm
for this horror.
They thought it was great.
We won the war.
And I'm this 15-year-old girl.
And as I began to absorb the
reality of the power that
came from Einstein
having figured
out that E equals mc squared--
scientific knowledge
made the bomb--
and suddenly, I could see
it's not just the bomb.
It could be many other uses
of power and misuses of power.
In my mind, I could see
the atomic bomb was not
the end of the
use of this power.
It was the beginning.
So I asked, what is the
meaning of this level
of destructive power that
comes from understanding
how nature works?
So the first place I went
to find out was the church.
And I was living in Scarsdale,
New York at the time.
And I, believe it or not,
joined the Episcopal church.
And I brought all my sisters
and brothers with me.
And I had an interview
with the priest.
And I said, I have
a question for you.
Did Jesus really do all this?
And what do you think is the
meaning of this kind of power
in the atomic bomb that's good?
And I could see he had no idea.
And he said, I
think you should go
to Sunday school, young lady.
So I went to Sunday school
at the Episcopal church.
And there, I found
the problem was Eve.
So that didn't work.
And I didn't
continue in that way.
Then I went to Bryn Mawr
College, a good women's
college.
And I wanted to take a course
on the meaning and direction
of human evolution.
There was no course on it.
You could take history.
You could take science.
You could take technology.
But you couldn't take
direction, nor could you
take what you were supposed to
be doing about this direction.
So I read in my room.
And then I had the
opportunity to meet
with President Eisenhower.
It was 1953.
He had just become president.
He was a friend of my father's.
I was taken into the
Oval Office to meet him.
And he was-- it was
a courtesy call.
And he said, pleasantly,
hello, young lady.
What can I do for you?
And I said, Mr. President,
I have a question for you.
Yes, young lady?
Mr. President, what do
you think is the meaning
of our military, scientific,
technological, and industrial
new power that's good?
And he looked startled.
He shook his head.
And he said, I have no idea.
It was the most powerful
man in the world
at that time-- no idea.
So the thought occurred to me,
well, then we better find out.
So I decided to take my
junior year abroad in Paris.
Now, this was in 1948.
And Paris, this beautiful
city, was deeply depressed.
The most sophisticated
nations in the world
had bombed millions.
Existentialism was
the world view.
And I was trying to be an
existentialist in Paris
in 1948, going to the Sorbonne
and the L'Ecole des Sciences
Politiques.
Now, existentialists
literally say
there is no intrinsic meaning
to the world except what
you personally can give it.
So can you imagine
walking around in Paris,
in the depressed society, in the
L'Ecole des Sciences Sciences,
which was a political
science school,
with all these children of
diplomats of the Second World
War?
And I still had this
feeling of hope inside me.
So I was asking,
when people said,
what are you hopeful about--
it was very critical.
It appeared to them I
was a stupid American
and that I had no idea how
terrible the suffering had
been.
Of course, I did.
But I was still looking
for meaning of power.
So one day, I was
having lunch alone.
And I happened to walk into
a little restaurant called
Chez Rosalie on the
Left Bank of Paris.
And there were just two
tables in this restaurant.
It was November.
There was a wood fire.
It was burning.
And I sat down.
And I was attempting to
be the existentialist.
So I had my Gauloises cigarette.
I ordered half a bottle of wine.
And in walked a very
handsome American.
And he had to sit
exactly opposite me
because there was
no other place.
So he did.
And I boldly said,
would you like
to have a little bit of my wine?
He said, yes.
And then I said, I have a
question I'd like to ask you.
His name was Earl Hubbard.
Yes?
I said, what do you think is
the meaning of our new power
that's good?
And Earl said, I'm an artist.
And I'm seeking a new image of
man commensurate with our power
to shape the future.
And he described to me how
we had lost a self-image.
And he was describing the
beautiful sculpture of David
that was a whole
beautiful being.
And then he talked about
after the sculpture of David,
came Monet, Manet, Pizarro,
Picasso, Jackson Pollock.
And as you see those
paintings, there's
a gradual breakup
of the image of man.
And the most modern of
the paintings at that time
was actually empty.
"White on White," it was called.
So he said, as an artist,
we need a new image
because if a culture does not
have its own story and an image
of where it's going,
it cannot be great.
So I thought, I'm
going to marry you.
And I did.
Basically, I loved Earl.
But I didn't want
to get married.
I wanted to discover the
meaning of our power.
I had a powerful mission.
But that isn't what happened.
And I got married at Saint
Thomas Church in New York.
And I was walking down the
aisle toward the priest.
And I remember thinking, I'm
going into a head-on clash
because I was coming
from some other space.
But I was living into
this new culture.
So Earl wanted to live far
away from New York City
so he could be an
artist and be original.
And we went to Lime
Rock, Connecticut.
We had a little house there.
And I was pregnant.
And I was having this baby.
And I remember waking
up one morning.
And I thought, where
did Barbara Marx go?
What happened to
this woman who was
seeking after something new?
And it was very difficult
for me for some time.
So after I got married,
I suddenly was no longer
Barbara Marx, the seeker.
I was a wife.
And then I was
becoming a mother.
And I had my first child and
then my second child and then
my third child and
my fourth child.
And at the time of my fourth
child, I loved my babies.
I worked with them all the time.
But there was this
nagging question.
What is the meaning,
not only now of my power
or the power or human
power, but my children?
Where are we going in
the future that's good?
And it was through
my deep questioning
that I discovered as I--
Teilhard de Chardin.
And he discovered the
process of evolution.
He discovered the new story.
And it is basically a cell,
multicell, animal, human,
and humans going around the
next turn in the spiral.
It's the story of evolution that
leads to higher consciousness,
greater freedom of
individuals, and more
conscious connectivity,
complexity, or love.
Therefore, I saw
the story is good.
It's painful.
Billions of species
have been extinct.
We could destroy
the entire planet.
However, there is a possibility
for it to go somewhere more.
And then when
Buckminster Fuller said,
we have the
resources, technology,
and know-how to
make of this world
a 100% physical
success if we synergize
our resources and
our innovations,
that hope was welling
up in me again
that we had the power to
make something great happen.
So while I was going
to the Church Women
United and the General
Federations of Women's Clubs
and taking the
children to school,
this bursting yearning for
the story was growing in me.
And I'd already heard
it from Teilhard
and from Buckminster Fuller.
But how are we going
to be part of it?
And then one day, I was
vacuuming in Lakeville.
We moved to Lakeville,
Connecticut.
And I was watching TV.
And I saw John Glenn
go up into space.
>> --correct.
The ready light is on.
Eject mercury umbilical.
>> Godspeed, John Glenn.
>> 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, 0.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> --loud and clear.
Roger, we're
programming in roll OK.
It's a little bumpy
along about here.
>> And I had this excitement.
The tears were
running down my face.
And I said to
myself, we're being
born as a universal species.
Our crisis is the birth of
a new human, of a new world,
of a new phase of
evolutionary history.
And with that awareness, I
began to see the direction
of the story in our lifetime.
I could see that the meaning
of the new power that
could lead to destruction
is also the power that
could lead to evolution.
And the only way that it
would lead to evolution
is if we become conscious of
it and become guides of it.
So then I could see
that the role of humans
is changing from mere
survival or power
over each other or over nature,
that the real meaning of humans
is going to be to guide the
new powers of humanity--
science, technology, industry--
toward a new humanity
to heal the earth, to free the
people, to explore inner space
and outer space and a cosmos
probably filled with life.
And I got turned on to the
next stage of evolution
at that time in my life.
And I was never the same again.
Actually, I realized
that we did not
have leaders who could take
us the next step, who did not
know.
Yes, we had Teilhard de
Chardin and Sri Aurobindo
and Buckminster Fuller
and, to some degree,
other evolutionary thinkers.
But I didn't see
anybody who was saying,
let's use this power to heal
the earth, free the people.
And we're going to be
a universal species.
And it's the greatest
age of human history.
I didn't find anybody like that.
But until I saw John
Glenn go into space,
I wasn't aware that we,
ourselves, were taking
another jump and
that we were going
to be a universal
humanity and that I
happened to be born
at the time of one
of those turns in the spiral.
And it wasn't going to be
more and more power and wealth
on this Earth alone.
We were going to use the
technology to heal the earth,
free the people, and
explore the universe.
So I became a
pioneer in awareness.
So this wife and mother of four
and then five children that I
was, I shifted in the
entire phase of my life
in my mid-thirties to be someone
who has a direction to go
forward for evolution--
and that I was there for--
to share with my children
that they are the generation
born when humanity
can heal the earth,
free the people,
and explore the universe.
And I must say that five out
of five children got turned on.
So once the children knew
this and I, as the mother,
knew this, the real problem
was what could I do about this.
And when I saw John
Glenn go into space,
I began to think we need
to meet the space leaders.
And we need to see
what they think
is the next step
for the future good.
So then I, actually,
with John Whiteside,
who was in the
Air Force, decided
to move to Washington, DC, to
make a total jump in my life.
I moved to Washington.
And my purpose there
was to find out
what's working in the world,
not just in the space program.
But that's when I began to
say, what's working in health?
What's working in technologies?
What's working in politics?
What's working in
ways of healing?
Well, when you look at the
growing edge of what's working,
you find enormous numbers
of things are now working.
But it's not
considered the news.
The news is what's not working.
So I became ever more
aware of putting together
the story of a world
that is possibly
what Buckminster Fuller said--
that we have the resources,
technology, and know-how
to make it work.
But we didn't have the story
to inform our leaders, even.
Our political leaders,
our social leaders,
our university leaders, our
church leaders didn't know.
So it's very
interesting in life when
you get to know something that--
obvious that others don't know.
Evolution is operating now
by choice, not by chance
or by the inevitability
of the nature of nature.
So while nature
has been evolving
for these billions of years,
the species involved in nature
had no idea.
Early humans and humans
in even later history
could see the spiritual
potential of humanity,
could see the potential of
humanity in life after death,
could see that we've had
awesome great beings,
the avatars of our species.
But they didn't see
that we ourselves
were going to gain
the powers of gods
and that we had to learn to be
good gods because we were just
at the beginning of our
phase of universal life.
I saw that the species
that is capable of using
the new power for
the good combined
with our deep inner
spiritual awakening
was going to be radically new.
So I began to piece together a
picture of the new human that
could possibly be doing this.
And I saw what I call the new
species had these qualities.
The first quality is an
evolutionary spirituality--
is that the new human
recognizes that we
are one with the
impulse of evolution,
that that core of
the spiral that
has gone to it for billions
of years is going through us.
And I became, in my
spirituality, one
with the impulse, one
with that God force.
The next level of myself
or anyone as a new species
is expanded vocation.
Your calling is not just to
be doing immediate things
on this Earth.
Your calling is to actualize
that evolutionary potential
inside yourself.
And you take the lid
off the top of it.
And you say to
yourself, if I could
go the whole way with my
vocation, what would it be?
And you know what
it became for me?
My vocation would go to
a planetary awakening
where enough people on Earth
would come together and see
that not only can
we heal the earth
and free ourselves from
immediate deficiencies,
but we're born in the
universe filled with life.
So I became vocationally
aroused to go
tell the story to turn humanity
on, in some way, with that.
So that was vocation.
And then when I started to study
innovations in every field,
let's say, in that
wheel of co-creation--
innovations in health,
education, technology,
governance, healing--
I saw we're already capable
of being the new species.
And this was like a secret
that was obvious on one hand.
And people could realize
we had all these powers.
But nobody put it together
as our story of evolution
that would be leading
to radical newness
and that we could plug in
things like our space program
into an evolutionary
story, more than just
a technological achievement.
The spiritual awareness
that I received
from knowing the new story and
knowing the billions of years
of evolution and feeling that
impulse of creation going
to higher order and more love--
I felt that impulse
inside me as spirit.
I felt my yearning to
participate, to share,
to create--
was spirit in me,
as me, creating.
So what comes of this is
an intimacy with spirit
as you become intimate
with the power
to actually change the world.
The only way you
could possibly do it
is not by power over, but
power with the direction
that spirit is already
taking, not just humanity,
but evolution itself.
And let's add to this we're
one tiny planet in the universe
of billions of galaxies.
So what we're
experiencing here on Earth
is undoubtedly the beginning of
our life as a cosmic species.
And undoubtedly, we are
going to learn so much
more that the radical
truth is that this
is the intention
of spirit itself--
is to create spiritually
motivated co-creators
at a universal scale.
That's who we are.
One of my favorite futurists
and authors is Jerry Glenn.
And in a book he wrote
on conscious technology,
he identified a pathway forward.
And he said if the mystic,
spiritually motivated person
joins forces with
the technocrat who
understands the enormity of
the powers given to humanity,
that combination of the mystical
and the technical capabilities
will lead to a new civilization.
And he called it a conscious,
technocratical civilization.
And I'm calling it, even
deeper, a new species
because if you actually apply
these new powers in health,
education, economics,
and technology
itself like artificial
intelligence and nanotechnology
and robotics--
if we apply all
of that with love
in the direction
of evolution, which
is higher consciousness,
more freedom,
through more complex and
loving order, we might become--
Teilhard de Chardin
called us an ultra-human.
Aurobindo and The Mother
called us gnostic humans.
These are humans beyond the
physical animal human who dies.
They didn't think we
would have to die.
Buckminster Fuller called
us continuous humans.
The people at
Singularity University
that are accruing so much
of this high technology
for positive use
say life extension
is going to be radical.
If you can live--
I'm 88.
So let's say I could live to 95.
By the time I get
to 95, they're going
to have discovered another five
or 10 years of how to live,
and so on.
So it might be that we'll
have to choose when to die.
We are already
choose to give birth.
So evolution is creating choice.
It's creating
co-creators, or it's
going to destroy
the entire world.
Our crisis is either the birth
of our civilization to the new
or the deaths and destruction
through the misuse of power.
Evolution is not
haphazard in the sense
it feels, to me, from looking at
the spiral and the direction--
is that it's testing
things out all the time--
what works, what doesn't work.
What doesn't work eventually
is excluded from evolution.
What does work, if it
leads to consciousness,
freedom, and more
love, is increased.
So there's a very profound
directionality in the choices.
We're free to choose
one ways or the other.
But we're not free to survive
if we make the wrong choices.
And nature is very
happy to extinct
any species that makes
choices that does not
lead to its sustainability.
And now talking on
the human level,
the particular period
of history we're in
is where choice has
become the greatest thing
that we've ever, ever faced.
How are we going to
use all our powers--
that is good?
That's why I'm doing this.
The new world view is an
evolutionary world view
that sees humanity as an
expression of the impulse
of evolution itself, seeking
more consciousness, more
freedom, and more love.
How can we reach the
masses with this news
of what we can become?
And that's a very good
question because the answer is
to tell ourselves the new news.
What we see every day on the
news is what doesn't work.
And the actual concept of
news is something not working.
And the worse it is,
the more news it is.
How often do you
hear the growing edge
of everything as the news?
Almost never.
So here's how I think the
masses will be able to get it--
is I can see a vast
internet program
with health, education,
economics, science,
and technology.
And every day, the new
news is told by the people
who are breaking through.
They're telling, we
just learned to do this.
We've just figured out
how to feed people who've
never been fed well before.
We have just-- and tell
that news, then show
that the news is connected,
like Prigogine said,
in a nonlinear,
exponential interaction.
And then invite the local
populace, wherever they may be,
to respond to this question.
What do you want to create?
What do you need to create it?
And create lots of
small groups of people
who want to create something.
As I probed into the meaning
of conscious evolution,
I had a development of
evolutionary spirituality.
I had an expanded
vocation where I
would like to participate so
that everybody can know this.
I began to look at
all the innovations
that exist in the world
and saw that we're already
a species with new powers
in every single field.
And then I studied
a very brilliant man
called Ilya Prigogine, who won
the Nobel Prize for his study
of dissipative structures.
Once I understood from Prigogine
that the way nature evolves is
by connecting
innovations together
until they self-organize
into a new system, what
I saw was if we were to pull all
the innovations in every field
that we have together,
nature itself
would help those
innovations to self-organize
into a new species that
was so much greater
than the sum of our parts.
And with that understanding and
with the Teilhard de Chardin
understanding of the direction
of evolution and with
Bucky's understanding that we
have the resources, technology,
and know-how to make it work
and that reality is a verb,
not a noun--
in other words, we're
active in this--
the tremendous excitement
of the new world
view for each one of us is
we are actors in this story.
We are imbued with the impulse
of evolution ourselves.
And we are given evolution
by choice, not chance,
because it looks to me like
God wants to create godlings,
that creator wants to
create co-creators,
that we are not
determined by forces
greater than theirselves.
We are given the power to
be greater than ourselves.
And it looks to me like
our crisis is a birth
and that the new
world view is humanity
being born as a universal
species with powers
we used to attribute to
gods and that to use them,
we have to be good co-creators.
So this view of reality in--
that comes from the new world
view is entirely different than
the idea that we're failing
and things are going wrong
and technology is, ultimately,
only a danger.
It's really telling
us it's up to us.
So we're looking for
leaders in every field,
in every country, in every
culture who say, yes, this
is where I want to go
with my creativity.
And this is where
my culture can go.
This is where my
civilization can go.
And in the same time frame that
we could destroy each other,
we could cross the threshold to
being the new species together.
And really, that's the
purpose of anybody's life
who gets this.